README.md, before:

# html link validator

This simple script provides function to validate internal link in html that generated by asciidoc(tor).  

## usage

1. Download this script
1. Import
1. Just use.  
    Here's a example usage.

    ```sh
    $ git clone https://github.com/kkimurak/html-link-validator.git

    $ cd html-link-validator

    $ tree
    .
    ├── html-link-validator.sh
    ├── README.md
    └── test
        └── sample.html

    1 directory, 3 files

    $ source html-link-validator.sh && validate_internal_link_in_html test/sample.html

    $ echo $?
    4
    ```

    Note that offset is added to returning value if at least one invalid link found, to avoid conflict with other error message (e.g. 2 means "no such file").  
    Please refer variable `validation_return_offset`.
    You can set VALIDATOR_DEBUG=true to see debug message  

    ```sh
    $ VALIDATOR_DEBUG=true

    $ source html-link-validator.sh && validate_internal_link_in_html test/sample.html
    link invalid_link is invalid
    1 invalid link found
    ```

## author

k.kimura ([@kkimurak](https://github.com/kkimurak))

Commit message:

add option to execute script directly
I developed this script to use in travis,
but it does not support importing shell using "source".
so direct running is required, and should be default.
We can still use this as function, with setting option
VALIDATOR_USE_AS_FUNCTION=true

README.md, after:

# html link validator

This simple script provides function to validate internal link in html that generated by asciidoc(tor).  

## usage

1. Download this script
1. Import
1. Just use.  
    Here's a example usage.

    ```sh
    $ git clone https://github.com/kkimurak/html-link-validator.git

    $ cd html-link-validator

    $ tree
    .
    ├── html-link-validator.sh
    ├── README.md
    └── test
        └── sample.html

    1 directory, 3 files

    $ html-link-validator.sh test/sample.html

    $ echo $?
    4
    ```

    Note that offset is added to returning value if at least one invalid link found, to avoid conflict with other error message (e.g. 2 means "no such file").  
    Please refer variable `validation_return_offset`.
    You can set VALIDATOR_DEBUG=true to see debug message  

    ```sh
    $ VALIDATOR_DEBUG=true

    $ html-link-validator.sh test/sample.html
    link invalid_link is invalid
    1 invalid link found
    ```

    If you want to import function using `source`, set `VALIDATOR_USE_AS_FUNCTION` to `true` and then do that.  
    `source` is not specified in POSIX, so I'm not sure if it works for you.  
    It works on my Fedora, but not works on Travis.

    ```sh
    $ VALIDATOR_USE_AS_FUNCTION=true

    $ source html-link-validator.sh && validate_internal_link_in_html test/sample.html

    $ echo $?
    4
    ```

## author

k.kimura ([@kkimurak](https://github.com/kkimurak))
